- [Instructor] Microservices depend heavily upon tokens
for establishing identity and enforcing access control.
Tokens help overcome the challenges posed
by a distributed system.
In a microservice architecture,
there is not a shared session between all of the services
that can hold information about the end user
and their privileges.
It is also not feasible for an end user
to authenticate each time a service is accessed,
nor should we pass their credentials around
between the services.
A token overcomes these challenges,
because it allows a client to hold some information
that can identify the end user
and the access granted to the client.
It also avoids the problem of having the client hold
the end user's credentials.
At a high level, tokens fall under one of two formats,
reference or structured.
The major difference between these two tokens
is where the token's actual metadata is stored.
A reference token is an opaque string
that doesn't contain any meaningful data.
Instead, it is passed in a request and used as an identifier
to look up the token metadata in a repository
of stored tokens inside the IAM platform.
On the other hand,
structured tokens hold metadata about the token itself,
the authentication event, and the end user
inside the token's payload.
The metadata is stored in key value pairs known as claims,
which are grouped together into a claim set.
One of the standards for formatting structured tokens
commonly used inside microservices is JSON web token.
When discussing JSON web tokens,
you'll hear the term pronounced as either JWT or jot.
I wouldn't get caught up in how to pronounce it.
The JWT standard defines a structure
that uses a signature and optional encryption
to securely transmit a JSON object
between two parties, like our client and our microservice.
The jot structure defines three segments,
a header, the payload, and a signature.
The JOSE header of a jot
specifies how the token was cryptographically protected,
allowing the holder of the token to understand
what algorithms or techniques were used
to sign or encrypt the token.
The payload or claim set of a jot
contains information formatted in key value pairs
that pertain to the end user or authentication event.
The final segment of a jot, the signature,
is very important.
It is cryptographically derived from the token's header,
payload, and a secret key.
The signature is used to verify
that a token hasn't changed since it was created.
This is a way to ensure the token
has maintained its integrity
as it's passed from one party to the other.
Structured tokens and reference tokens can be used
for several different purposes.
We have primarily been talking about access tokens,
which are tokens used to gain access to a microservice,
and they can be either reference or structured tokens.
Another type of token, known as a refresh token,
is a reference token that allows a new access token
to be obtained after the current one
held by a client has expired.
ID tokens are another type of token
that uses a jot structure
to provide authentication information regarding the user
for use by the client.
These tokens will progress through a life cycle
that begins with their issue and ends
with their expiration or revocation.
In the interim, they will be used by microservices
to make access decisions and to establish end user identity.
Most events in this lifecycle are governed
by well-defined industry standards like OAuth or jot,
and you can find them implemented in open sourced
and commercial IAM platforms.
Tokens fill the void in microservices
where the session used to be in a monolith.
However, the trade-off is that tokens
are much more difficult to manage.
In upcoming discussions,
we'll layer in how various standards and cryptography
are used to protect the integrity and confidentiality
of tokens in microservice-based systems
so that they can securely be used for access control.